Even with the best precautions, emergencies can happen.
Your ability to respond quickly and correctly can mean the difference between life and death.
Let's go through the critical steps for responding to an electric shock incident.
The absolute first rule is: do not touch the person.
If they are being shocked, they are part of a live circuit.
Touching them will make you a part of that circuit, too, and you will also be electrocuted.
Your first priority is to break the connection.
The safest way to do this is to shut off the power source.
This could mean hitting an emergency stop button, flipping a circuit breaker, or unplugging the equipment.
If for some reason you cannot turn off the power, you must find a way to separate the person from
the source without touching them.
Use an object that does not conduct electricity, like a dry piece of wood, a broom handle, or a piece
of heavy plastic.
Do not use anything metal or anything that is wet.
As soon as you have done this, or while someone else is doing it, call for emergency medical services immediately.
Once the power is confirmed to be off and the person is safe to touch, you can provide aid.
Check if they are breathing and have a pulse.
If you are trained in CPR and it is needed, begin administering it until help arrives.
In the case of an electrical fire, remember this crucial rule: never use water.
Water conducts electricity and will make the situation far more dangerous.
You must use the correct type of fire extinguisher.
Look for one that is rated Class C, or a multipurpose ABC extinguisher, as these are designed for electrical fires.